**Q. What happens in the backend when you enter www.google.com?**
Ans. So what happens is the client browser takes in the input sends it to the internet service provider abbreviated as ISP &#8594 The ISP then performs few functions before contacting DNS server. 1) First it checks whether you have access to the internet service or not, if you do it check the local cache to find whether it has IP of the website available, 2) If not its checks the set of IP addresses that are added to blocked and dnager list 3) If neihter of the above steps return an answer it sends the request to the local DNS Server. &#8549 The local DNS server than locates and finds the corresponding IP address to the given website and if it is not able to find IP addresses , it approaches Global DNS Servers to perform the same function. &#8549 Once the corresponding IP address is found the DNS Server contacts back the Internet Service Provider with the details. &#8549 Now the ISP provides these details to the client's browser and loads website.

HTTP is an abbreviation for Hypertext Markup Language
Hypertext means the combinations of text that can link to other piece of text. Keeping that concept in mind the word hypertext was used as one page is connected to another part through links embedded in the text.
Markup Language means that the part that needs to be shown in the website will be enclosed between some kind of language/tags that help the browser to interpret what that part of the website needs to be rendered as.
